README.md, before:

# Claude Code-Compatible Models

A comprehensive reference guide for developers looking to use Claude Code with cost-effective alternative AI providers. Includes up-to-date pricing, detailed setup instructions, and configuration examples for Anthropic, Alibaba Qwen, DeepSeek, MiniMax, Moonshot AI (Kimi K2), and Zhipu GLM models.


| Provider | Model | Input $/1M tok | Output $/1M tok | Notes |
|----------|-------|----------------|-----------------|-------|
| Anthropic | Haiku 4.5 | $1.00 | $5.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Anthropic | Opus 4.1 | $15.00 | $75.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Anthropic | Sonnet 4.5 | $3.00 | $15.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Alibaba | Qwen3 Coder | $0.22 | $0.95 | Uses Anthropic-compatible endpoint. |
| DeepSeek | deepseek-chat | $0.28 | $0.42 | Context caching enabled by default. |
| MiniMax | MiniMax-M2 | $0.30 | $1.20 | No prompt caching feature available. |
| Moonshot AI | Kimi K2 | $0.14 | $2.49 | Automatic prompt caching (beta). |
| Zhipu (ZAI) | GLM 4.6 | $0.60 | $2.20 | Has **GLM Coding Plan** from $3/mo. |
| Cerebras | Qwen3 Coder | $2.00 | $2.00 | **Cerebras Code** plans: $50-200/mo. |

---

## Provider Setup Guides

### Anthropic (Official)

**Installation:**
```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
# or on Unix systems:
curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.sh | bash
```

**Authentication:**

There are two main options:

1. **Claude Console (OAuth)**: Requires active billing at [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com). A "Claude Code" workspace is automatically created for usage tracking.

2. **Claude.ai Subscription**: Subscribe to Claude Pro or Max plan and log in with your Claude.ai account.

**Enterprise Options:**
- Configure Claude Code to use Amazon Bedrock or Google Vertex AI with your existing cloud infrastructure.

**Documentation:** [https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)

---

### Alibaba - Qwen

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Alibaba Cloud Model Studio](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio)
2. Create an account and generate a DashScope API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://dashscope-intl.aliyuncs.com/apps/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_DASHSCOPE_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "qwen-plus",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "qwen-flash"
  }
}
```

**Recommended Model Combinations:**
- **Main Model** (`ANTHROPIC_MODEL`): `qwen-max`, `qwen-plus`, or Qwen-Coder series for complex tasks
- **Fast Model** (`ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL`): `qwen-flash` or `qwen-turbo` for simple jobs

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/claude-code](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/claude-code)

---

### DeepSeek

**Getting API Key:**
Visit [DeepSeek Platform](https://platform.deepseek.com) to obtain your API key.

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.deepseek.com/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_DEEPSEEK_API_KEY",
    "API_TIMEOUT_MS": "600000",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "deepseek-chat",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "deepseek-chat",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1"
  }
}
```

**Using DeepSeek Reasoner (R1):**
Replace `deepseek-chat` with `deepseek-reasoner` in the configuration above.

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Troubleshooting:**
- Invalid token error: Verify `ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN` is set to your real DeepSeek API key
- No response: Confirm `ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL` is correct: `https://api.deepseek.com/anthropic`

**Documentation:** [https://api-docs.deepseek.com/guides/anthropic_api](https://api-docs.deepseek.com/guides/anthropic_api)

---

### MiniMax

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [MiniMax Developer Platform](https://platform.minimax.io)
2. Navigate to the interface key section
3. Create a new secret key with a project name
4. Copy and save the key securely (shown only once)

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.minimax.io/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_MINIMAX_API_KEY",
    "API_TIMEOUT_MS": "3000000",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1"
  }
}
```

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://platform.minimax.io/docs/guides/text-ai-coding-tools](https://platform.minimax.io/docs/guides/text-ai-coding-tools)

---

### Moonshot AI - Kimi K2

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Moonshot Platform](https://platform.moonshot.ai/)
2. Create an account and generate an API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.moonshot.ai/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_MOONSHOT_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "kimi-k2-turbo-preview",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "kimi-k2-turbo-preview"
  }
}
```

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Features:**
- 256K context length for handling complex codebases
- Seamless Claude Code compatibility with agentic tool use
- Automatic prompt caching (currently in 3-month public beta)

**Documentation:** [https://platform.moonshot.ai/docs/guide/agent-support](https://platform.moonshot.ai/docs/guide/agent-support)

---

### Zhipu (ZAI) - GLM 4.6

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Z.AI Platform](https://open.bigmodel.cn/) (Mainland China) or [api.z.ai](https://api.z.ai) (International)
2. Create an account and generate an API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.z.ai/api/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_ZAI_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "glm-4.5-air",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "glm-4.6",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "glm-4.6"
  }
}
```

**For Mainland China:**
Replace base URL with: `https://open.bigmodel.cn/api/anthropic`

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://docs.z.ai/scenario-example/develop-tools/claude](https://docs.z.ai/scenario-example/develop-tools/claude)

---

## 💰 Coding Plans Overview

Several providers offer **subscription-based coding plans** that provide generous limits for development work, often at 3-10x better value than pay-per-token pricing. These are perfect for intensive coding sessions or professional development work.

### **MiniMax M2 - Coding Plan** ⭐

**Plans:**
- **Starter**: $10/mo (100 prompts/5h) | $100/yr
- **Plus**: $20/mo (300 prompts/5h) | $200/yr
- **Max**: $50/mo (1000 prompts/5h) | $500/yr

**Benefits:**
- 1 prompt ≈ 15 model requests
- **1/10th the cost** of comparable plans (Claude, etc.)
- No unpredictable bills - fixed subscription
- Powered by MiniMax-M2 (230B MoE, 10B active)
- 204K context window

**Subscribe:** https://platform.minimax.io/subscribe/coding-plan

---

### **GLM 4.6 - GLM Coding Plan** ⭐

**Plans:**
- **Lite**: $3/mo (~120 prompts/5h)
- **Pro**: $15/mo (~600 prompts/5h)
- **Max**: Price varies (~2400 prompts/5h)

**Benefits:**
- **3x more usage** than comparable plans
- 1 prompt = ~15-20 model calls
- Over **55 tokens/second** generation speed
- No network restrictions or account bans
- Vision & Web Search (Pro+)
- Compatible with Claude Code, Cline, Cursor, etc.

**Features:**
- Text generation, Vision, Video generation
- Model mapping: Opus/Sonnet/Haiku all default to GLM models
- Singapore-based services with privacy protection

**Subscribe:** https://z.ai/subscribe

---

### **Qwen3 Coder - Cerebras Code** (Third-party)

**Plans:**
- **Cerebras Code Pro**: $50/mo
- **Cerebras Code Max**: $200/mo

**Benefits:**
- **20x faster coding** than competitors
- Equal or higher rate limits than Cursor/Anthropic
- Powered by Qwen3 Coder 480B (MoE architecture)
- Access via Cerebras Inference Cloud, OpenRouter, or HuggingFace

**Performance:**
- 2,000 tokens/second on Cerebras Wafer Scale Engine
- Problems that take 20s on Sonnet 4 finish in 1s

**Learn More:** https://www.cerebras.ai/blog/qwen3-coder-480b-is-live-on-cerebras

---

## General Tips

1. **Version Check**: Ensure Claude Code is up to date with `claude --version` and update with `claude update`

2. **Timeout Settings**: Some providers require higher timeout values (especially for complex reasoning tasks). The `API_TIMEOUT_MS` setting helps prevent premature timeouts.

3. **Model Selection**: Most providers support automatic model selection based on task complexity using `ANTHROPIC_MODEL` (main) and `ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL` (quick tasks).

4. **Regional Considerations**: China-based providers often have separate endpoints for mainland China vs. international users.

5. **Testing Configuration**: After setup, run `claude` in a test directory and verify the model responds correctly.

6. **Cost Optimization**:
   - Use cache-enabled providers (Anthropic, DeepSeek, Kimi) for repetitive tasks
   - Select appropriate model sizes for the task complexity
   - Consider batch processing for non-urgent workloads

Commit message:

Fix: Remove duplicate Qwen3 Coder entry and clarify Cerebras Code
- Removed duplicate row for Cerebras/Qwen3 Coder from pricing table
- Added Coding Plan note to MiniMax row in pricing table
- Clarified that Cerebras Code is a third-party service for Qwen3 Coder
- Added warning that Cerebras Code is not official Alibaba offering
- Kept Qwen3 Coder (Alibaba) as single entry with direct endpoint pricing

README.md, after:

# Claude Code-Compatible Models

A comprehensive reference guide for developers looking to use Claude Code with cost-effective alternative AI providers. Includes up-to-date pricing, detailed setup instructions, and configuration examples for Anthropic, Alibaba Qwen, DeepSeek, MiniMax, Moonshot AI (Kimi K2), and Zhipu GLM models.


| Provider | Model | Input $/1M tok | Output $/1M tok | Notes |
|----------|-------|----------------|-----------------|-------|
| Anthropic | Haiku 4.5 | $1.00 | $5.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Anthropic | Opus 4.1 | $15.00 | $75.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Anthropic | Sonnet 4.5 | $3.00 | $15.00 | Official API pricing. |
| Alibaba | Qwen3 Coder | $0.22 | $0.95 | Uses Anthropic-compatible endpoint. |
| DeepSeek | deepseek-chat | $0.28 | $0.42 | Context caching enabled by default. |
| MiniMax | MiniMax-M2 | $0.30 | $1.20 | Has **Coding Plan** from $10/mo. |
| Moonshot AI | Kimi K2 | $0.14 | $2.49 | Automatic prompt caching (beta). |
| Zhipu (ZAI) | GLM 4.6 | $0.60 | $2.20 | Has **GLM Coding Plan** from $3/mo. |

---

## Provider Setup Guides

### Anthropic (Official)

**Installation:**
```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
# or on Unix systems:
curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.sh | bash
```

**Authentication:**

There are two main options:

1. **Claude Console (OAuth)**: Requires active billing at [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com). A "Claude Code" workspace is automatically created for usage tracking.

2. **Claude.ai Subscription**: Subscribe to Claude Pro or Max plan and log in with your Claude.ai account.

**Enterprise Options:**
- Configure Claude Code to use Amazon Bedrock or Google Vertex AI with your existing cloud infrastructure.

**Documentation:** [https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)

---

### Alibaba - Qwen

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Alibaba Cloud Model Studio](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio)
2. Create an account and generate a DashScope API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://dashscope-intl.aliyuncs.com/apps/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_DASHSCOPE_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "qwen-plus",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "qwen-flash"
  }
}
```

**Recommended Model Combinations:**
- **Main Model** (`ANTHROPIC_MODEL`): `qwen-max`, `qwen-plus`, or Qwen-Coder series for complex tasks
- **Fast Model** (`ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL`): `qwen-flash` or `qwen-turbo` for simple jobs

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/claude-code](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/claude-code)

---

### DeepSeek

**Getting API Key:**
Visit [DeepSeek Platform](https://platform.deepseek.com) to obtain your API key.

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.deepseek.com/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_DEEPSEEK_API_KEY",
    "API_TIMEOUT_MS": "600000",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "deepseek-chat",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "deepseek-chat",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1"
  }
}
```

**Using DeepSeek Reasoner (R1):**
Replace `deepseek-chat` with `deepseek-reasoner` in the configuration above.

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Troubleshooting:**
- Invalid token error: Verify `ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN` is set to your real DeepSeek API key
- No response: Confirm `ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL` is correct: `https://api.deepseek.com/anthropic`

**Documentation:** [https://api-docs.deepseek.com/guides/anthropic_api](https://api-docs.deepseek.com/guides/anthropic_api)

---

### MiniMax

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [MiniMax Developer Platform](https://platform.minimax.io)
2. Navigate to the interface key section
3. Create a new secret key with a project name
4. Copy and save the key securely (shown only once)

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.minimax.io/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_MINIMAX_API_KEY",
    "API_TIMEOUT_MS": "3000000",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "MiniMax-M2",
    "CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC": "1"
  }
}
```

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://platform.minimax.io/docs/guides/text-ai-coding-tools](https://platform.minimax.io/docs/guides/text-ai-coding-tools)

---

### Moonshot AI - Kimi K2

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Moonshot Platform](https://platform.moonshot.ai/)
2. Create an account and generate an API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.moonshot.ai/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_MOONSHOT_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_MODEL": "kimi-k2-turbo-preview",
    "ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL": "kimi-k2-turbo-preview"
  }
}
```

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Features:**
- 256K context length for handling complex codebases
- Seamless Claude Code compatibility with agentic tool use
- Automatic prompt caching (currently in 3-month public beta)

**Documentation:** [https://platform.moonshot.ai/docs/guide/agent-support](https://platform.moonshot.ai/docs/guide/agent-support)

---

### Zhipu (ZAI) - GLM 4.6

**Getting API Key:**
1. Visit [Z.AI Platform](https://open.bigmodel.cn/) (Mainland China) or [api.z.ai](https://api.z.ai) (International)
2. Create an account and generate an API key

**Configuration:**

Edit `~/.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL": "https://api.z.ai/api/anthropic",
    "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN": "YOUR_ZAI_API_KEY",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_HAIKU_MODEL": "glm-4.5-air",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_SONNET_MODEL": "glm-4.6",
    "ANTHROPIC_DEFAULT_OPUS_MODEL": "glm-4.6"
  }
}
```

**For Mainland China:**
Replace base URL with: `https://open.bigmodel.cn/api/anthropic`

**Launch:**
```bash
cd your-project-directory
claude
```

**Documentation:** [https://docs.z.ai/scenario-example/develop-tools/claude](https://docs.z.ai/scenario-example/develop-tools/claude)

---

## 💰 Coding Plans Overview

Several providers offer **subscription-based coding plans** that provide generous limits for development work, often at 3-10x better value than pay-per-token pricing. These are perfect for intensive coding sessions or professional development work.

### **MiniMax M2 - Coding Plan** ⭐

**Plans:**
- **Starter**: $10/mo (100 prompts/5h) | $100/yr
- **Plus**: $20/mo (300 prompts/5h) | $200/yr
- **Max**: $50/mo (1000 prompts/5h) | $500/yr

**Benefits:**
- 1 prompt ≈ 15 model requests
- **1/10th the cost** of comparable plans (Claude, etc.)
- No unpredictable bills - fixed subscription
- Powered by MiniMax-M2 (230B MoE, 10B active)
- 204K context window

**Subscribe:** https://platform.minimax.io/subscribe/coding-plan

---

### **GLM 4.6 - GLM Coding Plan** ⭐

**Plans:**
- **Lite**: $3/mo (~120 prompts/5h)
- **Pro**: $15/mo (~600 prompts/5h)
- **Max**: Price varies (~2400 prompts/5h)

**Benefits:**
- **3x more usage** than comparable plans
- 1 prompt = ~15-20 model calls
- Over **55 tokens/second** generation speed
- No network restrictions or account bans
- Vision & Web Search (Pro+)
- Compatible with Claude Code, Cline, Cursor, etc.

**Features:**
- Text generation, Vision, Video generation
- Model mapping: Opus/Sonnet/Haiku all default to GLM models
- Singapore-based services with privacy protection

**Subscribe:** https://z.ai/subscribe

---

### **Qwen3 Coder - Cerebras Code** (Third-party)

**Plans:**
- **Cerebras Code Pro**: $50/mo
- **Cerebras Code Max**: $200/mo

**Benefits:**
- **20x faster coding** than competitors
- Equal or higher rate limits than Cursor/Anthropic
- Powered by Qwen3 Coder 480B (MoE architecture)
- Access via Cerebras Inference Cloud, OpenRouter, or HuggingFace

**Performance:**
- 2,000 tokens/second on Cerebras Wafer Scale Engine
- Problems that take 20s on Sonnet 4 finish in 1s

**Learn More:** https://www.cerebras.ai/blog/qwen3-coder-480b-is-live-on-cerebras

---

### **Qwen3 Coder - Cerebras Code** (Third-party for Qwen3 Coder)

**Plans:**
- **Cerebras Code Pro**: $50/mo
- **Cerebras Code Max**: $200/mo

**Benefits:**
- **20x faster coding** than competitors
- Equal or higher rate limits than Cursor/Anthropic
- Powered by Qwen3 Coder 480B (MoE architecture)
- Access via Cerebras Inference Cloud, OpenRouter, or HuggingFace

**Performance:**
- 2,000 tokens/second on Cerebras Wafer Scale Engine
- Problems that take 20s on Sonnet 4 finish in 1s

**Important:** This is a **third-party service** (Cerebras) offering Qwen3 Coder with subscription plans. The model itself is from Alibaba. For direct access to Qwen3 Coder without subscription limits, use the Alibaba endpoint shown in the setup guide above.

**Learn More:** https://www.cerebras.ai/blog/qwen3-coder-480b-is-live-on-cerebras

---

## General Tips

1. **Version Check**: Ensure Claude Code is up to date with `claude --version` and update with `claude update`

2. **Timeout Settings**: Some providers require higher timeout values (especially for complex reasoning tasks). The `API_TIMEOUT_MS` setting helps prevent premature timeouts.

3. **Model Selection**: Most providers support automatic model selection based on task complexity using `ANTHROPIC_MODEL` (main) and `ANTHROPIC_SMALL_FAST_MODEL` (quick tasks).

4. **Regional Considerations**: China-based providers often have separate endpoints for mainland China vs. international users.

5. **Testing Configuration**: After setup, run `claude` in a test directory and verify the model responds correctly.

6. **Cost Optimization**:
   - Use cache-enabled providers (Anthropic, DeepSeek, Kimi) for repetitive tasks
   - Select appropriate model sizes for the task complexity
   - Consider batch processing for non-urgent workloads
